# Gubernatorial-Elections

Matthew Marcum
Dr. Hess
Political Analysis
13 December 2023
Gubernatorial Election Performances in the United States
	In United States politics, gubernatorial elections hold significant importance to the functioning of each state and the country as a whole, as these elections shape leadership and policy trajectories for every state.  Each serves as its own referendum, reflecting the opinions of each individual state.  With each election being unique from any other state, there are a multitude of potential factors that can influence the outcomes of these elections.  This prospectus outlines a comprehensive analysis of what factors are the most important in determining the outcome of these elections, emphasizing these three three primary categories of impactors; economic conditions, quality of candidates and incumbents, and out-of-state influences.
Research Question
When analyzing American politics, there are several factors that can predict if candidates will perform well at each level of office, relative to the political leanings and demographics of each state. For example, whenever there is a new president, that president’s party typically loses seats in the next midterm election and it’s viewed as an extraordinary performance when a party is able to not lose seats in this election.  With gubernatorial elections, the party lines that many would expect to dictate an election can become more blurred with the factors laid out previously being the centerpiece of these elections.  For example, governors are commonly not a member of the state’s dominant party, showing how this line can be blurred.  Vermont, one of the most liberal states in the country, has Phil Scott, a Republican Governor, who has been serving since 2017 and won his last election in 2022 by a considerable margin of over 50 percent.  Kentucky, one of the country’s most conservative states, has Democrat Andy Beshear despite a Republican supermajority in both houses of the state’s legislature.
	In this prospectus, the question to be addressed is, “What factors are the most important in determining the outcome of a gubernatorial election and each candidate’s performance?”  This research question seeks to answer the key factors in play, the relationship between these factors, and how these factors ultimately influence the results of a gubernatorial election.  With the obvious blur of party lines, predicting each party’s performance in gubernatorial elections lies much more heavily in the factors laid out in the literature review compared to general partisan platforms.
Each factor at play can be observed through recent elections where candidates have either performed above or below what is to be expected based on each state’s general political leanings.  For example, Vermont Governor Phil Scott has repeatedly won his elections in Vermont as the electorate has had a favorable view of the bipartisan balance he has brought to state-specific issues throughout his terms.  This causes him to get overwhelming support because the voters are satisfied with the system in place and demonstrates how candidate quality can impact gubernatorial elections.
Democratic governor of Kentucky, Andy Beshear, demonstrated how out-of-state influences and economic conditions can influence election outcomes with his victories in 2019 and 2023.  In 2019, an off-year election, the public teacher pension plan was one of the most discussed issues heading into the election.  With the national impact of the American Federation of Teachers and national level interest groups focused on teachers and education backing Andy Beshear in several capacities, he was able to unseat former governor Matt Bevin.  He was successful once again in 2023, with high economic growth and consistently decreasing unemployment increasing his support in one of the most conservative states in the nation.
Literature Review
	In this literature review, sources relating to these three potential factors in gubernatorial election performances will be evaluated.  Economic conditions can play a role in a gubernatorial race, taking into account a voter’s perception of where responsibility lies for their current economic state.  The individual popularity of a governor and gubernatorial candidates also can impact election outcomes, with a governor’s popularity impacting their party’s nominee if they’re not running for a second term.  Out-of-state powers can also play a role, but with differing accounts on how much of a role they play.  National economic policies and out-of-state groups directly involved in a campaign can have an impact but gubernatorial elections can hold a separate voter base than presidential election voter bases.
Economic Conditions
	The impact of economic conditions on gubernatorial elections is of a lesser strength than the economy’s impact on federal level elections, as voters see the federal government as the one primarily responsible for the economy.  Peltzman found that voters understand that their governor has only a limited impact on their state’s economy as they have no control over a central bank for their state.  Because of this, gubernatorial candidates aren’t rewarded or penalized heavily by voters based on the effectiveness of the governor’s economic policy, but reward or penalize gubernatorial candidates of the same political party as the president based on the effectiveness of the president’s economic policy.  Niemi, Stanley, and Vogel refute this claim that voters don’t hold the governors responsible for economic conditions, even recognizing that research before them states governors aren’t held accountable.  In their research, they found that governors were still held accountable for personal finances, the state economic conditions, and tax increases or decreases.
However, when a state government isn’t a divided government, economic conditions have a more significant impact.  Leyden and Borelli found that the state’s economic condition can impact a gubernatorial election if the incumbent governor’s political party held total control of the government for the two years before the election, either helping or harming the governor’s party’s candidate in the election.  When there is a unified government, voters can more easily decide who’s more responsible for their economic state.  Economic conditions play a significantly smaller role when the government is divided, as voters are unable to pin responsibility for their state’s economic performance.
Adams and Squire focused on how the economy can impact an incumbent governor’s public approval, which can be explained as to how it impacts elections in the next section.  They argue that economic performance has little to do with the public’s approval of an incumbent governor.  They noted that in their research they found that in almost half of the states that they examined, economic performance had no impact on the approval rating of the governor.  However, in their discussion, they highlighted potential explanations for their findings that could invalidate their studies.  One is that economic statistics at a state level are less reliable than statistics at a national level, and with more reliable statistics their study could have shown that economic performance does impact public approval.
Atkenson and Partin did a comparative study on how economic performance impacts senatorial elections compared to Gubernatorial elections.  By doing so, they found that voters hold governors directly accountable for their state’s economic conditions in contrast to senators who are held accountable for national economic conditions.  This contrasts the results of the above studies that state that governors are not accountable for state economic performance or hold limited accountability, but supports Svoboda’s retrospective evaluation of gubernatorial elections in 1982 and 1986 in which the state’s economy was found as the second most important determinant of vote choice, only behind party identification.  However, their research was relative to senatorial races, which could have potentially altered their conclusion or provided a benchmark of another election of the same constituency that other studies are lacking.  Stein had a similar comparative piece in which he evaluated who was held accountable for economic conditions altogether.  In his research, he found that governor candidates are not held accountable for their state’s economic performance, instead being either rewarded or harmed on election day as voters hold the president and the president’s party accountable.  This falls in line with the findings of Peltzman.
Orth did find that governors can be held accountable for economic conditions, aligning with findings in Atkenson and Partin’s research.  In Orth’s research, he found that voters hold governors and presidents both accountable for economic conditions, but for their respective juridictions.  Governors are held accountable for only state economic conditions, but presidents are held accountable for both state and national economic conditions.  This makes a state’s economic condition a shared responsibility between the president and governor, with it up to voters to decide what exactly to hold governors responsible for.
	In contrast to other sources researching how economic conditions directly impact election results and candidate favorability, Burden and Wichowsky evaluated how economic conditions impact voter turnout.  They found that when unemployment increases, voter turnout also increases, contrasting past theories that a worsening economic state causes disenfranchisement amongst potential voters and a low voter turnout.  Under their research, the candidate who benefits most from a poor economic performance is the one who benefits most from a high voter turnout in their state.
	While the majority of studies reviewed have evaluated the share of responsibility for economic conditions between the other elected officials and governor, Brown researched how partisanship dictates who is held accountable for economic conditions during elections.  In his findings, he found that when placing responsibility on elected officials, voters gave credit to officials of their party for successes and blamed officials of their non-preferred party for any failures.  This study shows how economic conditions can either impact or not impact elections, as partisan loyalty is seen as the underlying factor by Brown.  This can weaken the economy’s influence on elections, as blame will be placed on either candidate proportional to their opposing party’s power.
	While most research so far has focused on how broad economic policy can impact an incumbent’s support and a gubernatorial election, Cummins and Holyoke focused on how fiscal policy can impact support for an incumbent or a challenger.  In their research, they found it to contradict that of others as they found that governors who increase their state’s budget are rewarded by voters.  Voters hold governors responsible for fiscal health in order to have a stable and effective state government, and governors in states with more broad executive budgetary powers are able to gain more electoral support for fiscal success.  They also highlighted that it’s not just the governor who can benefit from success or be harmed by a fiscal policy failure, but the party of the incumbent as a whole is impacted in the next gubernatorial election.
Quality of Incumbent and Candidates
	The popularity of an incumbent governor impacts the performance of their party’s gubernatorial candidate if they’re not running for reelection, and directly impacts election performance if the incumbent is running for reelection.  King and Cohen found that a governor’s popularity is linked to economic performance and party registration in their states.  Contrasting to the analyses of sources focused on economic impacts on gubernatorial elections, they found that a governor’s approval rating is linked to how their state’s economy compares to the national average.  They also found to their surprise that as a governor’s party increases in relative size to the other party, their approval rating decreases.  This can be connected to minority-party governors taking a more cautious approach in their governance as they focus on bipartisan action.  Barth and Ferguson evaluated how a governor’s personality impacts public approval, finding that governors who embrace a personality of strength tend to benefit from this personality on their public approval, while governors who cater more to intimacy are negatively impacted by doing so.  King found that the governor’s approval rating not only impacts their chances of reelection, but also their party’s candidate if they’re not running for reelection, although to a lesser extent.
	The popularity of candidates also individually impacts their performance, relying on previous offices when against an incumbent.  Differing from other sources where the past of the incumbent governor is evaluated, Sigelman and Smith evaluated the pasts of potential gubernatorial candidates, finding state attorneys general to be popular gubernatorial candidates.  This is based on the relatively diverse political experiences that attorneys general typically possess, oftentimes holding various offices before becoming attorney general.  Squire also evaluated the history of potential gubernatorial candidates, focusing on challengers to an incumbent governor.  He found that the level of the challenger’s previous political office directly impacted their election performance, with former governors and senators holding the highest advantage and candidates with no previous offices being in a disadvantageous position.
	Provost researches even further on how serving as an attorney general relates to gubernatorial elections, showing how the name recognition and popularity within one’s potential supporters that come with the position lures politicians to use it as a stepping stone to becoming governor.  In his research, he finds that attorneys general participated in multi-state litigations in order to position themselves to run for governor.  Even though this study is over attorneys general, it shows how popularity is a tool used to achieve a governorship.  The impact of name recognition and popularity that these attorneys general are seeking can be seen in a simple experiment by Sommer, who found that counting yard signs in an area was enough to accurately predict what candidate will win that area. 
	Some have even found that just the appearance of a candidate is enough to serve as a predictor on the election outcome, highlighting the role of popularity even outside of politics.  Ballew and Todorov found that when presented a snapshot of two candidates, subjects were able to accurately guess the winner based off who they thought was most competent.  In order to observe only the snapshots being taken into consideration by the subjects, any tests in which any candidates were recognized were discarded.  While personal appearances aren’t inherently a political stance and have little relation to any political factors of an election, they still represent the candidate themselves and can serve as a reflection of that candidate’s popularity.  This study showed that this popularity that is based on the candidate themselves can influence a voter’s decision.  Benjamin and Shapiro conducted a similar experiment, but using short videos instead of snapshots.  Their results showed that their subjects were also able to accurately predict election results based solely on their videos.  However, Benjamin and Shapiro said the study was not conclusive enough to judge if the appearance of candidates to have any meaningful impact.
	When evaluating the impact of a candidate’s popularity in a gubernatorial election, one place to look to see its true potential impact would be third-party victories.  Gold does this by analyzing the victories of former Maine governor, Angus King, and former Minnesota governor, Jesse Ventura, along with Ross Perot’s surprising performance in the 1992 presidential election.  He highlights the primary reasons for voters to vote third-party, typically because of discontent with the two-party system and being felt unheard by either candidate.  However, he highlights the importance of name recognition with these third-party candidates in order to build a base from scratch, asking himself through the analysis, “ Does the third-party candidate enjoy an established reputation and wide name recognition?”
	Just like how the impact of a candidate’s popularity on a gubernatorial election is debated, it is also debated what exactly determines an incumbent governor’s popularity.  When debating what determines an incumbent governor’s public approval, Crew, Branham, Weiher, and Bernick find that there is no single model that can determine an incumbent’s approval rating, instead varying state-by-state.  However, they did find that in each state studied that economic conditions and national political events had considerable sway over the incumbent governor.  This supports the other two sections in the literature review by demonstrating that economic conditions and out-of-state influences can both have electoral sway.
Out-of-State Influences
In previous sources analyzing economic performance and the popularity of governors and candidates, numerous national-level economic policies were shown to impact a candidate’s election chances.  One such way out-of-state groups can influence a gubernatorial election would be through campaign spending.  Campaign spending was found to directly improve a candidate’s chances of election victory by Partin, opening the door for out-of-state campaign funding to impact election results.  With this power for out-of-state campaign funders, gubernatorial elections are subject to significant interference from outside business interests, lobbyists, and national political parties.
Anzia’s research didn’t examine gubernatorial races, but it did examine how interest groups can influence non-presidential elections and gives an understanding of how they can impact gubernatorial races.  In Anzia’s research, she found that in school district elections that don’t coincide with presidential elections, interest groups have a larger influence and it can be seen by teachers in districts with off-cycle elections being paid 3% per year in base salary when compared to districts with on-cycle elections.  While this research doesn’t cover gubernatorial elections, it does show how in off-cycle gubernatorial elections there is more room for out-of-state influence as interest groups can hold a higher level of electoral influence.
Not only can out-of-state groups influence elections by inserting themselves into campaigns, but out-of-state policies can work their way into elections as well as governors respond to legislation not in their state.  Campbell and Shore-Sheppard found this to be the case in their evaluation of effects of the Affordable Care Act.  They found that two primary indicators of implementation of the Affordable Care Act were the partisanship of the governor and other executive offices and the public opinion of the Affordable Care Act in that state.  Because of the circumstances, governors were forced to react to one of the nation’s predominant issues during President Obama’s administration, bound to their state’s public approval of the Obama administration’s policies and their national party’s stance.
Out-of-State policies, along with out-of-state political trends, can also impact gubernatorial elections by impacting issue voters.  Cook, Jelen, and Wilcox evaluated the impact of abortion on issue voters who focused on abortion, which was shown to be a significant portion of the electorate with poll showing abortion issues being ranked higher than economic issues of their importance by voters.  They found that these issue voters were willing to cross party lines to vote for the candidate that shares their policy goals for abortions, in contrast to Brown’s findings that voters maintained partisan loyalty for economic issues.  Even though this study isn’t evaluating how this issue impacts gubernatorial races, it does mention how specific federal-level decisions have impacted the abortion debate, impacting how governors respond.  In a policy analysis for multi-level policies across the national and state levels, Rose states that important issues in state politics don’t come from within states, but from national trends.  This strengthens the usage of Cook, Jelen, and Wilcox’s evaluation of abortion to weigh national influence on gubernatorial elections.
Even though partisan influence on election can vary by issue, Hill and Leighly find that partisanship still has a significant impact on elections, as parties can impact their voter turnout.  In their study, they found that party ideology, competitiveness, and spending have varying levels of influence, varying with only competitiveness influencing states with more strict voter laws and only party ideology and spending influencing states with more relaxed voter laws.  However, party organization didn’t play a role in turnout under any conditions.  While party competitiveness by state based on that state’s political leanings, ideology and spending are both rooted in the party’s national level.  The party’s ideology serves as a reflection of all members across the nation, with little variation by state.  Even though many gubernatorial elections are funded in-state, the impact of spending by parties encourages parties to fundraise for gubernatorial elections at the national level.
Even with the electoral impact from national-level economic policies and the considerable influence held by outside groups through campaign funding, Tompkins found that gubernatorial elections are still distinct from national politics, even with national political influence in play.  In these findings, gubernatorial election results vary from each cycle at a higher degree than presidential elections, highlighting how state politics dictate gubernatorial elections.  The electorate voting for the president and the electorate voting for the governor continue to stay two separate electorates.
Even though the electorates for presidential elections and gubernatorial elections remain separate electorates, Holbrook argues that gubernatorial electoral performance is still reliant on the results of a presidential election and how the public views the president and state of the nation.  His findings are broken into four sections; the impact of the national economy, presidential popularity, the timing of the gubernatorial election in comparison to the presidential election, and incumbency.  For the national economy, governors of the same party as the president were either rewarded or reprimanded for national economic performance.  For presidential popularity, he found that gubernatorial public approval for governors of the same party as the president increased along with increases in the president’s public approval.  For the timing of the election, he found that gubernatorial elections during presidential election years resulted in more victories for the president’s party at a gubernatorial level as their candidates were able to ride off the coattails of the president, an attribute lacking in midterm elections.  For incumbency, he found that incumbent governors of the same party as the incumbent president who were running for reelection were able to benefit more than non-incumbents or incumbents who are not a member of the president’s party.
Concluding Remarks of Literature Review
Each source provided a varying degree of relative impact for different potential election result impactors.  Within the sources were also some potentially contradicting ideas, one example being that Peltzman found that voters rewarded or punished a gubernatorial candidate based on the president’s economic performance while Tompkins found that these two positions are elected by different electorates with differing motivations, contrasting with Peltzman’s claim of a gubernatorial election serving as a president’s economic referendum.
Thesis
The quality of candidates and incumbents is the primary factor in determining the outcome of a gubernatorial election, with economic conditions and out-of-state influences holding a lesser impact.  Upon evaluation of the literature in the literature review, the quality of candidates and incumbents is the primary factor in determining the outcome of gubernatorial elections.  Voters base their decisions primarily on the subfactors of this category, name recognition, public approval, and the candidate’s personality.  Voters are most likely to vote for someone who they know, is popular, and has a personality that the voters believe is the best fit for their governor.  
Economic conditions had varied impact, with contradicting answers to who voters hold accountable for economic conditions.  The literature showed that voters hold the governor, president, or both accountable, with varying answers to the amount of responsibility voters place on either one.  It was also questioned if economic conditions play any role if the governor and president are of opposing parties, as there was research to show that voters will credit economic growth to the officeholder of their preferred party and will credit economic decline to the officeholder of the party they oppose, canceling each other out.
Several out-of-state influences were shown to have an impact on the results of gubernatorial elections, but gubernatorial elections were shown to still be independent races that are unique from national politics.  Out-of-state actors hold the power to influence elections, as campaigns can receive heavy funding from outside actors and outside interest groups take advantage of off-year elections to boost support for their preferred candidate.  National political events and policy trajectories also hold this power, forcing governors and gubernatorial candidates to play reactionary roles in determining their own policies.  However, it was shown that voters still hold gubernatorial elections separate as their own entity, as the constitentuency between gubernatorial elections and national elections are overlapped but still separate with different factors impacting each voter.
Research Design
The overarching goal of this research design is to answer what factors hold the most influence on gubernatorial elections, measuring and comparing the impacts of each one on a case-by-case basis.  With each state and their gubernatorial elections being unique in their own ways, a case-by-case evaluation with a comparison of each case to one another provides a multi-faceted approach that shows what the common key factors are and to demonstrate when a potential impactor can influence an election.
For sampling of cases, states will be divided into various groups to evaluate electoral impacts in different environments.  States will be grouped based on two variables.  The first is the time of each election, either a presidential election year or an off-year election.  The second is the political leanings of each state based on presidential election results since the 2012 election, being either left leaning, swing states, or right leaning states.  By grouping by these two variables, it can be observed how gubernatorial races compare to the state’s general political leanings across the whole poolitical spectrum and it can be observed how different sets of data are influenced by the presidential election.  The data set for each state would include past voter surveys over key issues influencing their votes, election results, and funding to campaigns or by outside groups to help a campaign.
With the data sets, a set of independent variables can be created to examine states within each category and categories compared to one another.  The first set of independent variables will be key factors to voters to analyze the impact of each one.  This will be measured with the past surveys from data sets and allow for comparisons between different key factors in the next step.  The second independent variable will be campaign and general election funding, analyzing who funded what side of an election and for what reasons.  The third set of independent variables will be the categories that states will be divided into, comparing the influence of key factors across states of different political leanings and evaluating the influence of the timing of the election in relativity to the presidential election.  
There will be two dependent variables in play, each representing various impacts.  The first will be gubernatorial election performances, analyzing how each independent variable impacts performances in each state relate to each state’s geeral political leanings to measure the deviance between the two.  The second dependent variable will be the survey results for key factors to voters, finding what percentage of voters selected each key factor as influential to them in each state.  These two dependent variables will show how much each independent variable impacts an election when compared to if the variable isn’t in play and allows for comparing states within each category and comparing categories to one another, while highlighting any common findings between states in different categories.
With the data provided by the dependent variables of each state, they can be compared to one another in several ways.  Amongst the six categories (presidential year left leaning, right leaning, and swing states and off-year left leaning, right leaning, and swing states), states will be compared to one another to measure gubernatorial impactors without the influence of political leanings and election times.  From there, prominent factors from each category will be compared to the other categories to measure the influence of political leanings and election timing.  This will show how these two factors influence each election to measure partisan factors and presidential election influence.  States can then be compared to one another without categories to find what key factors are the most influential in all elections.
Works Cited
Abramowitz, Alan I., Albert D. Cover, and Helmut Norpoth. “The President’s Party in Midterm Elections: Going from Bad to Worse.” American Journal of Political Science 30, no. 3 (1986): 562–76. https://doi.org/10.2307/2111090.
Adams, Greg D., and Peverill Squire. “A Note on the Dynamics and Idiosyncrasies of Gubernatorial Popularity.” State Politics & Policy Quarterly 1, no. 4 (2001): 380–93. http://www.jstor.org/stable/40421439.
Anzia, Sarah F. “Election Timing and the Electoral Influence of Interest Groups.” The Journal of Politics 73, no. 2 (2011): 412–27. https://doi.org/10.1017/s0022381611000028.
Atkeson, Lonna Rae, and Randall W. Partin. “Economic and Referendum Voting: A Comparison of Gubernatorial and Senatorial Elections.” The American Political Science Review 89, no. 1 (1995): 99–107. https://doi.org/10.2307/2083077.
Ballew, Charles C., and Alexander Todorov. “Predicting Political Elections from Rapid and Unreflective Face Judgments.” Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America 104, no. 46 (2007): 17948–53. http://www.jstor.org/stable/25450354.
Barth, Jay, and Margaret R. Ferguson. “American Governors and Their Constituents: The Relationship between Gubernatorial Personality and Public Approval.” State Politics & Policy Quarterly, vol. 2, no. 3, 2002, pp. 268–82. JSTOR, http://www.jstor.org/stable/40421464. Accessed 6 Oct. 2023.
Benjamin, Daniel J., and Jesse M. Shapiro. “THIN-SLICE FORECASTS OF GUBERNATORIAL ELECTIONS.” The Review of Economics and Statistics 91, no. 3 (2009): 523–36. http://www.jstor.org/stable/25651356.
Brown, Adam R. “Are Governors Responsible for the State Economy? Partisanship, Blame, and Divided Federalism.” The Journal of Politics 72, no. 3 (2010): 605–15. https://doi.org/10.1017/s0022381610000046.
Burden, Barry C., and Amber Wichowsky. “Economic Discontent as a Mobilizer: Unemployment and Voter Turnout.” The Journal of Politics, vol. 76, no. 4, 2014, pp. 887–98. JSTOR, https://doi.org/10.1017/s0022381614000437. Accessed 6 Oct. 2023.
Campbell, Andrea Louise, and Lara Shore-Sheppard. “The Social, Political, and Economic Effects of the Affordable Care Act: Introduction to the Issue.” RSF: The Russell Sage Foundation Journal of the Social Sciences 6, no. 2 (2020): 1–40. https://doi.org/10.7758/rsf.2020.6.2.01.
Cook, Elizabeth Adell, Ted G. Jelen, and Clyde Wilcox. “Issue Voting in Gubernatorial Elections: Abortion and Post-Webster Politics.” The Journal of Politics 56, no. 1 (1994): 187–99. https://doi.org/10.2307/2132352.
Crew, Robert E., David Branham, Gregory R. Weiher, and Ethan Bernick. “Political Events in a Model of Gubernatorial Approval.” State Politics & Policy Quarterly 2, no. 3 (2002): 283–97. http://www.jstor.org/stable/40421465.
Cummins, Jeff, and Thomas T. Holyoke. “Fiscal Accountability in Gubernatorial Elections.” State Politics & Policy Quarterly 18, no. 4 (2018): 395–416. https://www.jstor.org/stable/26973434.
Hill, Kim Quaile, and Jan E. Leighley. “Party Ideology, Organization, and Competitiveness as Mobilizing Forces in Gubernatorial Elections.” American Journal of Political Science 37, no. 4 (1993): 1158–78. https://doi.org/10.2307/2111548.
Holbrook, Thomas. (1987). National Factors in Gubernatorial Elections. American Politics Research - AM POLIT RES. 15. 471-483. 10.1177/1532673X8701500403. 
Gold, Howard J. “Third-Party Voting in Gubernatorial Elections: A Study of Angus King of Maine and Jesse Ventura of Minnesota.” Polity 35, no. 2 (2002): 265–82. http://www.jstor.org/stable/3235500.
King, James D. “Incumbent Popularity and Vote Choice in Gubernatorial Elections.” The Journal of Politics, vol. 63, no. 2, 2001, pp. 585–97. JSTOR, http://www.jstor.org/stable/2691766. Accessed 6 Oct. 2023.
King, James D., and Jeffrey E. Cohen. “What Determines a Governor’s Popularity?” State Politics & Policy Quarterly, vol. 5, no. 3, 2005, pp. 225–47. JSTOR, http://www.jstor.org/stable/40421550. Accessed 6 Oct. 2023.
Leyden, Kevin M., and Stephen A. Borrelli. “The Effect of State Economic Conditions on Gubernatorial Elections: Does Unified Government Make a Difference?” Political Research Quarterly, vol. 48, no. 2, 1995, pp. 275–90. JSTOR, https://doi.org/10.2307/449069. Accessed 6 Oct. 2023.
Niemi, Richard G., Harold W. Stanley, and Ronald J. Vogel. “State Economies and State Taxes: Do Voters Hold Governors Accountable?” American Journal of Political Science 39, no. 4 (1995): 936–57. https://doi.org/10.2307/2111664.
Orth, Deborah A. “Accountability in a Federal System: The Governor, the President, and Economic Expectations.” State Politics & Policy Quarterly 1, no. 4 (2001): 412–32. http://www.jstor.org/stable/40421441.
Partin, Randall W. “Assessing the Impact of Campaign Spending in Governors’ Races.” Political Research Quarterly, vol. 55, no. 1, 2002, pp. 213–33. JSTOR, https://doi.org/10.2307/3088072. Accessed 6 Oct. 2023.
Peltzman, Sam. “Economic Conditions and Gubernatorial Elections.” The American Economic Review, vol. 77, no. 2, 1987, pp. 293–97. JSTOR, http://www.jstor.org/stable/1805467. Accessed 6 Oct. 2023.
Provost, Colin. “When Is AG Short for Aspiring Governor? Ambition and Policy Making Dynamics in the Office of State Attorney General.” Publius 40, no. 4 (2010): 597–616. http://www.jstor.org/stable/40865417.
Rose, Douglas D. “National and Local Forces in State Politics: The Implications of Multi-Level Policy Analysis.” The American Political Science Review 67, no. 4 (1973): 1162–73. https://doi.org/10.2307/1956538.
Sigelman, Lee, and Roland Smith. “Personal, Office and State Characteristics as Predictors of Gubernatorial Performance.” The Journal of Politics, vol. 43, no. 1, 1981, pp. 169–80. JSTOR, https://doi.org/10.2307/2130245. Accessed 6 Oct. 2023.
Sommer, Barbara. “Front Yard Signs As Predictors of Election Outcome.” Political Methodology 6, no. 2 (1979): 237–40. http://www.jstor.org/stable/25791074.
Squire, Peverill. “Challenger Profile and Gubernatorial Elections.” The Western Political Quarterly, vol. 45, no. 1, 1992, pp. 65–42. JSTOR, https://doi.org/10.2307/448766. Accessed 6 Oct. 2023.
Stein, Robert M. “Economic Voting for Governor and U. S. Senator: The Electoral Consequences of Federalism.” The Journal of Politics 52, no. 1 (1990): 29–53. https://doi.org/10.2307/2131418.
Svoboda, Craig J. “Retrospective Voting in Gubernatorial Elections: 1982 and 1986.” Political Research Quarterly 48, no. 1 (1995): 135–50. https://doi.org/10.2307/449124.
Tompkins, Mark E. “Have Gubernatorial Elections Become More Distinctive Contests?” The Journal of Politics, vol. 50, no. 1, 1988, pp. 192–205. JSTOR, https://doi.org/10.2307/2131048. Accessed 13 Oct. 2023.


